# PHP to Ruby Reference

When learning a new language, it's easy to get hung up on little things.  This
reference aims to ease the Ruby learning curve for PHP developers by mapping 
many of the PHP functions to their Ruby (and Rails) equivalents.

## Organization
                      
We've attempted to structure the reference as closely to the excellent PHP
manual as practical. The directories in this repository map to the sections of
the PHP manual.

"Class/Object Information" is named `classobj` in the PHP manual and can be
viewed at [http://php.net/classobj](http://php.net/classobj). The directory
for the source files in this repository is also named `classobj`.

Within each directory of this repository, there are a collection of Markdown
files whose filenames match the names of corresponding PHP functions.

While our system is certainly less sophisticated than Docbook and the
PhD rendering system used by the PHP manual, it's lightweight and gets 
the job done for our purposes here.

## File Format

Every Markdown file shares the same basic structure.  Browse some of the 
files in this repository to see it.

We're added these simple extensions to the standard Markdown syntax:

### Notices

A block surrounded with braces and a `notice:` marker is used at the top 
of pages to get the attention of the reader:

    {{notice:
        This function’s solution will only work within the context 
        of the Rails framework.     
    }}

Our most common use for these notices is to advise the reader of certain
assumptions that we have made, e.g. that the solution is designed for Rails 
or a Unix-like operating system.

### Code Snippets

Code snippets are surrounded with braces and a `code:` marker that hint 
about the source code within them:

    {{code:php
        $array = array('chicago', 'london', 'paris');
        var_export($array);
        // => array(0 => 'chicago', 1 => 'london', 2 => 'paris')
    }} 

Above, `code:php` indicates that the snippet should have a PHP icon and that
it should use PHP syntax highlighting.

You can also use `code:ruby` and `code:rails`.  Use `code:rails` only for
snippets that make Rails-specific assumptions, e.g. those that depend on 
the core extensions installed by ActiveSupport.

### Related Functions

The "See Also" section of each page is generated by a list of functions between
braces with a `related:` marker:

    {{related:
        array_pad
        list
        count
        range
    }}

Typically, the related function list will mirror that of the PHP manual.
